all right folks welcome back
to all this
showing off stuff
all right so today we went through the
process of
watching and analyzing the opening
price on es
and i mentioned
on twitter
that i was interested in this old high
back here
that's
largely linked to the fact that we had a
gap when the session started again last
night my local time about six o'clock
and we got down
and then it just drifted lower
had a small little
rally in here
smt divergence i'll show you that in a
moment but
in here
we have
the market creating relative equal highs
it broke down i gave you the
fairway gap live this morning on the
live stream walk you through the whole
business of
running out the cell side
and the opening gap
on sunday which is
over here
so i don't have that on my chart so let
me just drop that on real quick
if you don't mind me
working as i go i don't want to be doing
any more
edits than
i need to and i don't think you might be
doing it in front of you so we can see
what i'm showing you
all right so the market trades down
below the sell side here
and
into the sunday gap opening
we traded through it
all the way down to
another
favorite gap
hits that there
comes back up
runs back up into the opening range
drops once more into an older block
rallies take the short term high
retraces back down into another order
block
let me
stretch this out as you can see a little
bit better that's
not as
cluttered as it now
all right and
we worked
off this order block
this order block which you'll see when
you get in the five minute chart it's a
little bit cleaner
here
and here and rallying up into the level
i was mentioning on twitter this morning
so i'm gonna drop into a five minute
chart
[Music]
okay and
there's a favorite egg up i gave you
live
beautiful delivery look at the low
on this candle right here
right up here look at this value right
here
39 26 and three quarters
this candle trades right back up to what
value the high now on this candle
39 26 and three quarters folks that is
absolutely perfect that's perfect price
delivery okay
i know i'm kind of
known for the forex market showing
things like that to the pit that type of
stuff
it originated really with
index futures bonds and index features
so
in the 90s i was
utilizing these same tools i know it
seems like it just came out of nowhere
recently because i've talked about it
but these things have been under my
control my my ownership if you will
for about three decades so
it's nice to be able to share them
obviously with all of you and it's
very
well i guess the word
is
fulfilling
to
show it to you
to walk you through it live so you can
see what it is what it looks like
and
yes i have a lot of people asking me why
don't i give trade signals can i run a
trade signal room please i will pay you
can you do this and can you do that no
i'm not going to do that okay
i don't want to be in another
paid
service type thing okay i'm sick of it i
don't want to deal with that no more i
can make all the money i ever need
trading and to be honest with you i
don't really need to do anything anymore
anyway i'm padded out
so
just enjoy the fact that i'm wanting to
teach i love teaching i love sharing
with you and i know it is helping a lot
of you so just let that be the economy
between us okay i like doing it you like
receiving it it doesn't cost you
anything so there you go
so when we hit the sphere value gap
it broke
lower and then once more return back up
into it
well not into the fair value but up into
that range
here and then broke and i gave you a
small little imbalance and we'll look at
in a moment we traded down into the
sunday gap i mentioned the lower end
would be this time the level to watch
and so if we went down below it come
back up it'll act as what resistance
it does so here we'll look at lower time
frame drops lower
once more hits the old fairway gap i
showed you before we dropped into the
five minute
little bit of consolidation ahead of
lunch
typical retracement during the lunch
hour all the way back up to the opening
range
broke lower
small little swing low broken
back to rebound and also look what it's
doing here folks
it's going back up into that old
gap opening on sunday
trades up into it access what resistance
trades lower down into an order block
big down handle right there that's the
one
over here
hits it starts to accumulate
rallies up
back above
what level
here i'm gonna
make sunday's levels really really
obvious it's going to be obnoxious
actually
so i want you to see
what was going on in my mind
as i'm watching price
okay
price goes above
the opening
gap or gap opening rather from sunday
then trades back down into it
see that
hits it rallies
falls short of what
the relative equal highs over here
retraces where does it trade down into
that gap opening again now we're at the
discount low
it rallies comes back down in fury value
gap
trades into that
this is a 15 minute order block
rallies and what's it go to
the 39 52 and three quarters level
hammers it beautiful
beautiful beautiful beautiful in the
afternoon it became a lot better in the
morning it was sloppy so when i say
things are sloppy
it just means that
it's not really giving you a whole lot
to work with i mean you have very few
options and you have to know exactly
what you're looking for
i.e what i was giving you this morning
and this area here watch how it should
stay open and it stayed open basically
the whole thing this is sloppy even
though it's a nice delivery
it's not giving you all of the
mechanics of entry like this one here
this one here this one here and then run
to the objective i was drawing your
attention to today so the morning while
yet
it was still
potentially profitable and i was able to
call it for you live
that really wasn't my
choice
session because it was just i didn't
have a real clear view on what i wanted
to see
this morning one of the followers on my
twitter feed
uh a lady asked you know
why was i talking about 39.53 level
i rounded it up one
quarter point
above this level
and the high comes in at
39.54 and a half so
off by one and a half
points so our handles
so
i was more interested in the run to that
level versus just going down to the
sunday gap opening or the old
london open lows
their trades there obviously and you can
see i can see them coming it's not a
matter of you know
missing them because i don't know that
they're there or forming
my interest really lies with
what is the setups that i'm liking the
most like what is it i'm looking for
specifically and the level i gave you
that 3953 level i want to see a run up
into that so we had to come down below
and then back above sunday's gap opening
and then it treats it as a dynamic
support resistance level
did you just hear ict that's blasphemy
he just talked
retail
that's a cuss word around here
well i'm talking about in a way where
you'll understand it so the opening gap
on sunday
if you put it in your charts and just
plot it across the entire week you'll
see that many times there's a lot of
valuation around that gap so it'll be
treated as a dynamic price level if it's
above it look for it to act as support
if it's below it look for it to act as
resistance and if you can find a swing
high
for instance
we have these here we trade down
okay if it's going to trade down into
the sunday gap opening
look for it to run about here there you
go you don't need to have this level
that i pointed out this is enough
relative equal highs and relative equal
highs over here so i've taught you how
to find those bicep liquidity pools
but i taught you today with this lesson
using that sunday gap opening and just
extending it through the entire week
sometimes the week will just run away
from it and won't really come back to it
but in weeks where there's consolidation
like fomc we have that
uh to deal with for this calendar week
and
those types of events
create these choppy range bound
range bound
markets that
don't give you
the real clean take off one-way
directional move you have to know how to
trade in these environments okay so
obviously my tools do very well in this
in this environment too but let's go
down into
four minute chart
[Music]
actually it's going to three
and now let's go down to
two minutes
there it is i
forgot what time frame i was looking at
good grief
all right so
we dropped down to a lower timeframe
here's the two minute you can see we
have a fair value gap here i mentioned
how i didn't want to see it come back up
into that once we moved away go back and
watch the live stream recording it's on
youtube
unedited it's exactly as it was done at
the time you can see
i was fumbling around
had no idea what i'm doing
um
before i get in any further in this
lesson and lecture
understand this i am not
buttering you all up
to do these a lot
i don't want to do them a lot they take
a lot of my time they distract me from
my own trading and my own personal life
so i understand
that doesn't
you make you feel good because you had a
good time today and maybe you learned
something yesterday too
but the other live session but
i showed you what it looks like i showed
you how you go into the marketplace and
you read it
and
i'm gonna leave it up to you the viewers
decide whether or not if these things
work okay
you don't need me holding your hand the
worst thing that i could do
is sit down with you just a few times a
week or even once a week
that would create such a co-dependency
on me
that it would not help you
and to be quite honest with you
i knew as soon as i did this
i would get complaints and emails and
things you know
we need you to help us take live trades
we want you to do that you're being
selfish you're being ignorant you are
you know
self-centered because you won't tell us
when to get in when to get down folks i
didn't do this for that type of
feedback okay
i only promised i would show you that i
could show you the things before it
happens that way you can see what it
looks like
and there's nothing that's required
you know to trick anybody i mean either
it's going to work or it's not going to
work but you have to be in front of the
charts doing these types of things and
failing is part of that that's how you
learn these are opportunities to grow
from that
so anyway um
i think that is
it i want to go back up to the 15 minute
time frame
and talk a little bit about this area up
here that gap i think that is
where we're going to be
drawing up into because this is in my
opinion
not going to be left open okay so
they're going to want to trade back up
into that there's missing data here
okay there's an actual gap
so it'll want to draw up into that
and what to what price level
i'd like to
the low on that candle
okay so if it was going to be a perfect
delivery it would go right to that
candle's low
but i'm not expecting perfect i'm not
suggesting that at all
but
if we go above this area that means
we're probably going to go into a deeper
run on the daily
and
[Music]
let's take everything off here
so we're likely to run this high here
and we have another block there
so the low at four thousand
so that's something to consider and
watch going forward
for the rest of the week i may be wrong
you know it's just something for you to
go into your charts and start studying
and looking for
um i think i have one bit of business
oh
let's go back into
let's go into a five-minute chart
[Music]
all right um i was watching hannah
on her youtube channel
and
i don't know exactly
of him what market was i want to say it
was australian dollar maybe it was
canadian dollar but something it was a
4x pair
i don't need to have that
on the chart to explain what i sell are
doing and some of my students when they
first come in to the fold they do this
type of thing too
they will look at a range like this like
here
to here and they'll measure that range
low to high to find the 50 level and
then use that over here
for a discount that's not how we do it
okay if we are looking for
a
short
in anna's example she was looking for a
you want to look at the price leg that
drops and this is going to be the
reverse of that okay so this might be a
little confusing but just reverse the
logic and you'll understand i'm sure
hannah will follow along
so from the low here
up to this high here
if we're looking for a long to get above
these relative equal highs and or use
that 3953 level i was calling for or
making reference to this morning
this low up to this high this is what
you'd be doing
okay so if you're looking for it to go
higher you're going to need to draw your
fib from a low up to a high
that dealing range from that low that a
high we're waiting for in
anticipated retracement
so the retracements going down to and
below 50 now this becomes what a
discount so you can be hunting along at
this level or less if we're into a fair
value gap that's good
okay
uh the same thing is done here if we're
looking because it has not taken this
out here yet just fell short of it so if
we take the fib and just anchor it to
that high
and run it to here
you can see here's 50
of this dealing range low this dealing
range high
and it drops down to a discount okay
you're looking at
expansion swings
okay or impulsive price swings in the
direction you're trying to trade you
don't want to use
a
price leg from high to low
measuring something that you're trying
to go
long one
but you don't want that you want to be
using the impulsive price swings that go
in the direction you're trading then it
retraces down in below 50 or add it into
a fair value gap
then you can
probe that as a long
and rallies up
so i just want to kind of clarify that i
wasn't sure if she was
aware of what she was doing but if she
wasn't aware that now she knows
so that way all of you have had the
benefit of learning
through her interactive study which i'm
absolutely
loving i'm loving it um
i wish more of you would do it
and as long as i had time to
to
sit down usually it's on the weekends
that i get a chance to catch up to stuff
like that but
i'm loving the thailand
vibe i'm loving the
you know the booboo kits and
not so much
the food poisoning
sorry for that but
hopefully this has been insightful to
you hannah hopefully everyone else has
got something from this as well and i'm
sure i'll be back again lord willing on
thursday until then be safe